2022/05/19 18:30
TAIPEI (Taiwan News) — The Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC) has announced that people who have contracted COVID in Taiwan do not to be listed as contacts of cases for three months and can therefore avoid additional quarantines during that period.As the local outbreak continues to heat up, the number of confirmed and recovered cases increases. The CECC on Thursday (May 19) announced that if a COVID case has been diagnosed, recovered, and completed their isolation period, it is not necessary to list them as a contact of new cases.However, if there is a possibility of infection, it is recommended they test for COVID. Since the beginning of this year, the cumulative number of local COVID cases has exceeded 950,000, according to CECC statistics.At a press conference that afternoon, Philip Lo (羅一鈞), deputy head of the Central Epidemic Command Center's (CECC) medical response division, said that some people have described recovered patients as "invincible stars" because they will a certain degree of immunity for at least three months. Given that some recovered patients have occupations that repeatedly put them in contact with COVID cases, such as healthcare jobs, it is becoming less practical to repeatedly list recovered patients as contacts of new cases.Lo explained that if a previously diagnosed case comes into contact with confirmed cases again within three months of the onset date of their symptoms and are asymptomatic, they no longer need to be listed as a contact. In addition, they are no longer required to undergo isolation measures such as the "3+4" and "0+7" quarantine schemes.However, Lo reminded the public that if recovered cases come in contact with new cases, and suspected symptoms of COVID appear after exposure, they are recommended to take a rapid antigen or PCR test. If the result is negative. Lo said there is no need for them to be listed as a case contact.Lo pointed out that after a COVID case is released from isolation, they are in principle regarded as non-infectious, and if the virus is detected again in their system within the next three months, most will not be judged to have new infections. When asked by the media about the occurrence of reinfections, Lo explained that as of Monday (May 16), at total of 457 cases diagnosed with a previous variant of COVID within the past two years have been found to have a second infection caused by Omicron.If a COVID case tests positive after their quarantine has ended, Lo said that they will be considered non-infectious, additional tests are not necessary for the next three months, and they will not be subject to the seven-day quarantine required for new cases. Lo said the only exception to this would be a situation in which a doctor suspects the patient is suffering from reinfection.
﻿2022/05/16 17:34
taipei (taiwan news) — the central epidemic command center (cecc) issued new quarantine guidelines for covid cases, travelers arriving from overseas, and contacts of covid cases. It also announced that it will end the quarantine requirement for close contacts of covid cases who have received a third dose of the covid vaccine. For covid cases (tested positive), they are required to do a 7+7 plan. People diagnosed with COVID who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms can enter home care for seven days. People in high-risk groups will be transported to a government-appointed quarantine facility, while those with moderate-to-severe symptoms will be admitted to a hospital. Following the seven days of home care, COVID cases then begin seven days of self-health management. During this phase, people can venture outside the home without taking a rapid antigen test but cannot go to crowded places, restaurants, gatherings, or other social activities. As for overseas arrivals, all arrivals from foreign countries must take a COVID test upon arrival. After their seven-day quarantine expires and the COVID test is negative, the seven days of self-health management begins. During the seven days of self-health management, overseas arrivals can venture out of the home without taking a rapid antigen test, but cannot go to crowded places, restaurants, gatherings, or other social activities. For close contacts, defined as relatives, friends, and roommates who live in the same residence of covid cases, who have received three COVID vaccine doses will be able to avoid quarantine under the "0+7" plan, they no longer need to undergo three days of home isolation and instead can directly begin seven days of self-initiated epidemic prevention. During the seven days of self-initiated epidemic prevention, contacts who have had booster shots must have tested negative on a rapid antigen kit within the past two days if they wish to venture out. When going out, in the self-initiated epidemic prevention phase, they should wear a mask and maintain proper social distancing at all times. If they develop symptoms, they should rest at home and take a rapid antigen test.  If any violations are discovered, the violators will be prosecuted according to the law. Individuals observing the self-initiated epidemic prevention stage are discouraged from going out unless absolutely necessary, and they must have proof of a negative test result on a rapid antigen kit within the past two days. People undergoing this stage are prohibited from dining in restaurants, eating at banquets, attending social gatherings, entering crowded venues, and coming in contact with unfamiliar people.